So let's work on another way of organizing and importing our objects and materials.
This time we'll be thinking about using an external application like quick small studio or substance
painter.
And these are great applications that allow you to do PBR texturing or physical based rendering that
allows you to create textures based on real world settings and lighting.
So all of the processes that we've already looked at regarding grouping or creating materials exporting
your object out to unity all of those things apply so we could export a single FDX with the multiple
objects and a material for each object to say substance painter and work with it there.
We could also export out a single object with multiple materials and substance painter would see those
separate materials just the way unity does.
And then you could work with those individual materials in texturing.
But in addition you can also use something called Color ID or vertex colors so you can assign vertex
colors to your object different colors for each material and then that external application like quick
soul or substance painter is going to see that color ID those individual Virtex colors as individual
materials.
So in Blendr you give your object one material but then you apply different Virtex colors to it.
And in substance painter it sees it as multiple materials.
So let's give that a try.
I've got substance painter here and this is what I'm going to use to bring that object that Blendr object
with vertex colors in just to show you the difference.
Now since the Blendr object is going to be all one material we're going to have all one U.V. map for
it.
What I'm going to do is create a lamp here this kind of teardrop lamp.
And the object that we'll be bringing into substance painter is this base piece which I'm going to have
the say porcelain here and maybe Brasstown down there and I'm going to use a substance painter to give
it kind of worn rusted look.
However this lampshade I'm going to have to use a different material at the very least it could be a
wholly separate object so that when I take the whole thing as an FBI file into Blendr I can assign a
specific material to the lampshade only and give it some emission so it looks like there's a light inside
the lampshade.
All right.
So let's get to making this lamp here and see what we can do.
So I'm going to go to a brand new layer.
I'll go over to the Create tab and create a new cylinder and instead of 32 sizes take it down to 12.
And I don't want to cap Phil on this so I'll just change that to nothing.
Let's scale it in the z x and z scale that down a bit and I'll hit maybe three key and the five key
and the period key to zoom in and go to an orthographic view and it looks to me like this bottom edge
here flares out just a little bit.
So scale that out some maybe like that.
And now let's begin working on the lamp proper So this is the base here I'll hit E and then scale it
in just a bit and then I'll begin extruding up so I'll hit E and Z and pull it up.
And then I'll scale out of it.
And let's begin working on that teardrop shape there I'll hit the end Z again and let's bring it up
and scale it out.
And maybe easy and we'll just keep working our way up here.
Let's see doesn't need to go out some more.
Can it begin to come in.
How about something like that.
Easy.
And I can adjust these edge loops later as I need to.
Once I get the basic shape in easy scale it in some easy and scale and then some.
So we've got the basic shape there of the lamp.
It looks like I could maybe take this guy with alt click and take him up some scale it in a bit.
And I think I'll add just an edge right here and scale it out a bit there.
So you get more of a flare out with that and go something like that.
All right I'll go ahead and create a little cap so I'll just hit the and scale that out a smidge in
easy and raise that up in the Z something like that and then close it off here
doesn't need to be too elaborate up here.
And to close that off I'll press Allt am to bring up the merge menu and I'll merge those selected vertices
at the center and there we go.
All right.
So we've got that we can always come over here and smooth this.
I'm going to go to the Tools tab and hit smooth.
Well smooth that out a bit.
So it isn't quite so blocky and down here.
I could come in here and choose these faces right here.
Allt click between two faces to choose that entire face loop and I could come to the shading Uvas tab
and I'll flatten those out like that.
Now that should give me a little bit more of an edge there at the bottom.
Let's go ahead and create that lamp shade.
Now all come back to perspective view for a minute with the five key and I'm going to create a new cylinder.
Once again it's only got 12 signs that's good and no cap Phil..
I'll go back to the orthographic view with three in the five key and let's bring this back up.
And scale that a bit the zeem maybe it could be a little bit wider and then let's grab that edge up
top here and scale that in a bit something like that.
Yeah.
Now when we take this into the game we're going to be able to see the inside of the lampshade and the
back of any polygon we're going to be able to see through.
So we're going to want to give this a little bit of fitness so we can't see through it.
So to do that we can come over here to the modifiers panel and choose add modifier and we can use this
solidify modifier.
And if we choose that now I can grab this thicknesse field to click and drag on it and you can see I
can make it thicker on the inside here or something like that.
I think that will work.
Now if I hit apply there we go.
You can see that we've got a bit of thickness to that now.
Now there's a little seam on the top and the bottom we could probably go ahead and just add a little
bit of an edge up here and a little bit of an edge down here.
I'm going to hit the and click and now I want to scale out but not in the z so I'll press S to scale
shift Z to turn off the z axis and just scale out just a bit.
I go same down here extrude and then S and shift Z and we go.
All right.
So now what I can do is go ahead and smooth this we go.
So now we need to U-V map the whole thing.
I think what I'll do is split it out by material or what's going to be a different material.
So if we go back to the U-V editing screen layout frame it up with the period key and hit the tab key.
Let's work on this part down here first.
I think what I'll do is go ahead and put a seam right down here.
Let's go to edge mode alt click and edge put a seam right down here.
Let's put an image right back here.
Let's just say that this will be the back of the lamp.
So press control E and Mark see him again I'll hit the A key.
Disliked everything you for the U-V mapping menu and click unwrap.
Now notice that it's not looking quite the same as it does in a 3D view.
And once again it's because we don't have the scale applied.
So if I go back to the properties panel we can see that the scale is nonuniform.
So I control a scale and then I'll go back to edit mode and hit you and unwrap.
And now we see it's conforming to the shape and size of our object.
A little bit better now it's pulling quite a bit up here which is pulling down here.
I think what I'll do is go ahead and split it out.
At this point up here I kind of put an extra edge up here so I'll split that out here just to give it
a little bit of room to breathe.
You and unwrap.
There we go that's a little bit better we see there.
Now if we wanted to check how are you.
The map is going to look to see whether or not the textures are going to be stretched on this we can
apply a U-V test pattern to it just to see if there's any stretching now over here under display.
You can also turn on stretch display and anything that's blue is not stretched and anything that moves
towards orange yellow or red is stretched.
So it appears we're doing pretty well here.
However if we wanted to really test it with a U-V test pattern we need to go ahead and apply our material
here or create a material.
I'll select new material panel.
I'll call this lamp base and in our U-V image editor I'm going to come down here and click new and instead
of a blank image that I'm creating here I'm going to choose U.V. grid and that will generate black and
white texture pattern.
I'll call this U-V test.
And I'll click OK and there is our U-V test pattern.
Now we can assign the test pattern texture to the lamp material.
So I'll press shift a texture image texture and let's pull down this little menu right here and you
can see it right in here.
So now you can see here is our test pattern and it doesn't look great.
Of course you can see that seem very clearly back there.
But the good thing is as we can put that seam away from the camera away from the player so it won't
be seen.
Let's go back into our U-V map here.
And I think what I'd like to do is just select this U-V Island and maybe rotate it a bit so it's more
straight up and down here.
And this one really doesn't matter much.
That's going to be up inside the lamp and this one here.
I think it looks OK.
What we're going to be doing is we're going to be creating really procedurally generated materials that
are then applied as textures.
So we don't need it to be as clean and straight as we might if we were say applying text to an object
to scale this up just a little bit to kind to maximize the screen space here or the resolution or something
like that.
All right let's U-V map the lampshade.
Now if I select the lampshade let's just.
Well it looks like we could split out the insides.
I think let's do that.
So a seam here and a seam down here.
And then let's split it out in the same place that that other seam was right down here so alt click
that seam and let's mark a seam there.
Now take a look at how this looks.
Yeah that's pretty good.
I'll go with that.
We can switch from conformal to angle based.
That to me looks even a little better and we can apply a U.V. test pattern to this as well create the
new material.
Call it lamp shade and let's apply that U-V test pattern to this as well just to make sure we're doing
all right not too bad I think it'll work just fine.
Especially since these are just going to be kind of overall procedural type textures that don't have
any text or specific patterns on them.
So I think we'll be good with these.
All right so now let's go back to our default view.
And what I'd like to do now is a sign of Virtex colors to the parts of this object that are going to
be separate materials.
So we don't have a lot of different parts to this.
Now this can be done for a much larger more complex piece but I just wanted to show you in terms of
a very simple object.
So let's go over to the object mode menu here and let's switch from object mode to vertex paint.
And here we have the vertex paint tools over here on the left.
If I come over and change to say a blue color and click and drag you can see I can create paint colors
per vertex.
Notice that it's painting just on individual vertices and that's that's what Virtex paint does.
Now to make my life a little easier I could go through and paint this by hand like this.
And we could get the job done.
But that's a little tedious.
So what I want to do is come down here to this little guy this face selection masking button and click
that.
Now we've got faces that we can select and de-select.
Now I'm going to de-select that with the aiki and I can press the L key and select the object or the
part of the object that has been delineated by the seam so I had a seam down here and I had a seam up
here and so it selected everything between the seams.
So now with all of these faces selected I can press shift K and that will fill that whole area with
that particular color if I need to come back to that color I can create a new palette and come down
here and click new and then add this blue to my palette.
So there it is.
I can always come back to it now the next one down here let's fill with a different color let's say
red I'll hit a de-select I'll hover over this area and press the key and that will select all of those
faces and our press shift K and that will fill that area up with that color.
Let's go ahead and capture that color in case we need to use it again.
And what about up here.
Let's do this one too maybe this is a different kind of metal than the one on the base.
Maybe this is a silver or a stainless steel thing.
I don't know.
I'm going to hit the L key and let's give this one a green color like here a press shift K and I'll
also save that just in case I want to use it again.
So there we have the vertex colors assigned to our object.
So now these vertex colors can be seen by a program like substance painter and it will assume that your
different colors are what you want to be different materials.
So let's go back to object mode here.
We're going to go ahead and make sure I've got everything named properly.
Let me look at my materials.
I've got lint base for that and lamp shade for that.
Good do I have that in the object as well.
No I don't.
So let me copy the material and put it in the name of the object.
And let's go to the lambastes.
Same thing here let me copy the material name and put it in the name of the object.
Excellent.
Now we have our lamp and we make sure that we are here with uniform scale.
We don't have that for the lampshade Let's go ahead and hit control a in scale.
Let's put the center or the pivot point of the lampshade at the base of the lamp set origin the 3D cursor.
Let's make sure that's done for this as well.
Set origin to 3D cursor.
That can just help us snap objects easier once we get it into unity.
Because the pivot point from Blendr is going to be the pivot point in unity.
All right let's bring everything else back.
Holy smokes.
Look at that and let's scale these down.
Just select the lampshade and scale them down.
So we're going to have to reapply our scale here aren't we.
I forgot about that.
Let's put this up on the table.
Frame it up with the period key and let's see if we can get it.
So it looks about right.
So the scale of the object is OK.
What do you think is that.
Feels a little big maybe else bring it down just a little bit.
Something like that.
All right so now let's go ahead and apply a scale of both of these objects control a scale.
Good.
Let's now go ahead and import these objects now.
I haven't imported yet the end table here.
I just kind of created this table based on the coffee table.
So I haven't imported that yet either.
Let me make sure that the name is good in table.
I'm using the same materials for the table and I'll use the same texture to at least for now.
But let's take this object right here as an FBI acts into substance painter.
And see what it makes of it.